## <b> IRLS--Iteratively reweighted least-squares. </b>

This Matlab code implements iteratively reweighted least-squares optimization. To begin, download all the files in the same folder. Figures from the referenced conference paper and presentation can be regenerated by running main.m in Matlab.

Version 1.0 <br>
Original posting 21 April 2025 <br>

Author: LC Potter (potter.36@osu.edu) <br>
Reference: LC Potter, SD Blunt and S Pine, "Quadratic Majorization-Minimization in
Regularized Radar Imaging,"
2025 IEEE International Radar Conference (RADAR 2025), 
May 2025, Atlanta, Georgia.

Please give credit to this paper if you use the code for your work.
<hr>

## What problem is solved?
The codes target problems of the form

minimize f(Ax)+lambda*g(x)

where "A" is a linear operator, "f" is a differentiable function, and "g" is a “simple” (but possibly non-smooth) function. Problems of this form including sparse least-squares (basis-pursuit), lasso, total-variation denoising, matrix completion, and many more.

The paper above gives tutorial for the quadratic majorization-minimization approach (IRLS) and provides example comparing to proximal gradient methods, such as FASTA.


## Code Sources
The Matlab codes are, in part, adapted from the following:

Shenlong Zhou, et al.
	https://github.com/ShenglongZhou/PSNP
	S Zhou, X Xiu, Y Wang, and D Peng, Revisiting Lq (0 <= q < 1) Norm Regularized 		   	  Optimization. ArXiv:2306.14394, 2023.

Tom Goldstein et al.
	https://github.com/tomgoldstein/fasta-matlab
	T. Goldstein, C. Studer, and R. Baraniuk, A field guide to forward-backward 
	   splitting with a FASTA implementation. ArXiv:1411.3406v6, 28 Dec 2016.

## How to cite
If you find that these codes have contributed to your published work, please include an appropriate subset of the following citations:

	@inproceedings{PotterBluntPine:2025,
	  Author = {Potter, LC and Blunt, SD and Pine, S},
	  Title = {Quadratic Majorization-Minimization in Regularized Radar Imaging},
	  year = {2025},
	  booktitle = {2025 IEEE Radar Conference (RadarConf25)},
	  volume = {},
	  pages = {1-6},
	}

	@article{GoldsteinStuderBaraniuk:2014,
	  Author = {Goldstein, Tom and Studer, Christoph and Baraniuk, Richard},
	  Title = {A Field Guide to Forward-Backward Splitting with a {FASTA} Implementation},
	  year = {2014},
	  journal = {arXiv eprint},
	  volume = {abs/1411.3406},
	  url = {http://arxiv.org/abs/1411.3406},
	  ee = {http://arxiv.org/abs/1411.3406}
	}

	@misc{FASTA:2014,
	  Author = {Goldstein, Tom and Studer, Christoph and Baraniuk, Richard},
	  title = {{FASTA}:  A Generalized Implementation of Forward-Backward Splitting},
	  note = {http://arxiv.org/abs/1501.04979},
	  month = {January},
	  year = {2015}
	}

	@misc{Zhou:2024,
	  Author = {Shenglong Zhou and Xianchao Xiu and Yingnan Wang and Dingtao Peng},
	  title = {Revisiting $L_q(0\leq q<1)$ Norm Regularized Optimization},
	  year = {2024},
	  journal = {arXiv eprint},
	  volume = {abs/2306.14394},
	  url = {http://arxiv.org/abs/2306.14394},
	  ee = {http://arxiv.org/abs/2306.14394}
	}

Copyright (c) 2025 - The Ohio State University. <br>
All rights reserved. <br>

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its documentation for educational, research, and not-for-profit purposes, without fee and without written agreement, is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright notice, the following two paragraphs, and the author attribution appear in all copies of this software. For commercial licensing possibilities, contact The Office of Technology Commercialization Office (http://tco.osu.edu/) at The Ohio State University. <br>
 
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY BE LIABLE TO ANY PARTY FOR DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE AND ITS DOCUMENTATION, EVEN IF THE OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. <br>

THE OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIMS ANY WARRANTIES INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE SOFTWARE PROVIDED HEREUNDER IS ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, AND THE OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY HAS NO OBLIGATION TO PROVIDE MAINTENANCE, SUPPORT, UPDATES, ENHANCEMENTS, OR MODIFICATIONS. <br>
